Release notes 1.3.3 (#1668)
hyperledger/firefly: doc-site/docs/releasenotes/index.md

title: Release Notes
---

# Release Notes

[Full release notes](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/releases)

## [v1.3.3 - Mar 24, 2025](https://github.com/hyperledger/firefly/releases/tag/v1.3.3)

What's New:

> - Add new method to provide reliable receipt storage for blockchain plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add new interface for blockchain plugins to stream receipt notifications with `ack` to core
    - Allows strictly ordered delivery of receipts from blockchain plugins that support it
    - Allows resilience on receipt delivery to core, against a checkpoint maintained in the connector
```

- Changes in metrics:   

>     - Added new metrics for Data Exchange 

Reviewer: What metrics are added and why? Should this be first in the list?

Author: Let me add them

>     - Added a namespace label to existing metrics and change gauges to vectors

Reviewer: This is two different bullets

Author: The latter is a result of the first, we need to change to a vector to add labels

Author: but I don't think we need to mention it here but instead in the migration consideration

>     - Added `monitoring` configuration section and deprecated `metrics` section

Reviewer: This is a significant one - given this is about endpoint listeners. Probably a separate section to the metrics (as the purpose is actually unrelated to metrics - it's to allow the port that hosts the Open Telemetry endpoint, to also host other things like status endpoints).

Author: Yeah, good point

Author: So it was already a separate server and we just change the configuration name to make it more readable and makes more sense

    - Added HTTP Response Time and Complete Gauge Support to `firefly-common`

> - Enhancements to private messaging with callback metric support and fix to use network namespace

Reviewer: These seem like to separate bullets

Author: so this is instead the fix

> - Fix update handling of duplicate batches to avoid editing existing messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix to issue that could result in messages being marked `Pending` on re-delivery of a batch over the network
```

        - `ff_multiparty_node_identity_dx_mismatch` notify that the certificate in FireFly Core is different to the one stored in Data Exchange
        - `ff_multiparty_node_identity_dx_expiry_epoch` emit the timestamp of the certificate of Data Exchange useful for SREs to monitor before it expires 
    - Added a namespace label to existing metrics to separate metrics more easily 
    - Added HTTP Response Time and Complete Gauge Support to `firefly-common`
    - Allow the `metrics` server to host additional routes such as status endpoints 
        - This resulted in a new configuration section of `monitoring` to be more appropriate than `metrics` which has now be deprecated. 
- Fix to issue that resulted in retried private messages using local namespace rather than the network namespace
- Fix to issue that could result in messages being marked `Pending` on re-delivery of a batch over the network
- Miscellaneous bug fixes and minor improvements
- Documentation updates, new troubleshooting section for multiparty messages
- CVE fixes and adoption of OpenSSF scorecard on key repositories
    
### Migration consideration

> As part of the changes to the metrics to add the new `namespace` label, we changed from using a Prometheus `Counter` to a `CounterVec`. As a result there is no default value of `0` on the counter, which means when users query for a specific metric such as `ff_message_rejected_total` it will not be available until the `CounterVec` associated with that metric is incremented. This has been safely added as part of a patch release and determined to be an easy upgrade for SRE monitoring these metrics. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of the changes to the metrics to add the new `namespace` label, we changed from using a Prometheus `Counter` to a `CounterVec`. As a result there is no default value of `0` on the counter, which means when users query for a specific metric such as `ff_message_rejected_total` it will not be available until the `CounterVec` associated with that metric is incremented. This has been determined to be an easy upgrade for SRE monitoring these metrics, hence inclusion in a patch release. 
```
